Assessment Task
We looked at developing objectives from your SWOT analysis. Based on the objectives you have developed in class activities, you now need to explain the process of developing strategies from a set of business objectives.
Part One 
1. Outline your business objectives (150-words)
Objective 1
Economic objectives: 
A business has a single objective. That is, to make profit. Profit is the lifeblood of business, without which no business can survive in a competitive market. In fact profit making is the primary objective.Profits must be earned to ensure the survival of business, its growth and expansion over time. Profits will help the business not only to earn the living but also to expand the business activities by reinvesting a part of the profits.
In order to achieve this primary objective, which are as follows:
a) Creation of customer: By providing quality goods and services at a reasonable price. Attract more customers for its existing as well as new products by achieving with the help of various marketing activities.
(b) Regular innovations:Reduction in cost and increase in sales gives more profit to the busines.To reduce cost by adopting better methods of production and also increase their sales by attracting more customers because of improved products.
(c) Best possible use of resources: Employing efficient workers. Making full use of machines and minimising wastage of raw materials.
Objective 2
Human or individual objectives:
Fulfilment of expectations of employees, proper education and training.
i) Development of Human Resources: Proper training as well as development. To improve the employees skills and develop their abilities and competencies in course of time.
(ii) Social and Psychological Satisfaction of Employees:To provide social and psychological satisfaction to the employees by making the job interesting and challenging, putting the right person in the right job and reducing the monotony of work Opportunities for promotion and advancement in career. Further, grievances of employees should be given prompt attention and their suggestions should be considered seriously when decisions are made.
(i) Economic Well-being of the Employees: To provide with tan remuneration and incentive for performance benefits of pension and other amenities like medical facilities, and etc.
(iv) Well-being of Socially and Economically Backward People:To help backward classes and also people who are physically and mentally challenged. For instance, vocational training programmes may be arranged to improve the earning capacity of backward people in the community. While recruiting its staff, it should be given preference to physically and mentally challenged persons. It also helps and encourages meritorious students by awarding scholarships for higher studies.
Objective 3
National objectives:
Fulfilling national goals and aspirations. To provide employment opportunities to its citizens, earn revenue for its exchequer, become self-sufficient in production of goods and services, promote social justice, etc. 
(i) Creation of Employment: To create opportunities for gainful employment of people. Establishing new business units, expanding markets, widening distribution channels, etc.
(ii) Production According to National Priority: To produce and supply goods in accordance with the priorities laid down in the plans and policies of the government. To increase the production and supply of essential goods at reasonable prices.
(iii) Promotion of Social Justice: To provide equal opportunities to all persons. To provide equal opportunities to all the employees to work and progress.Special attention must be paid to weaker and backward sections of the society.
(iv) Contribute to the Revenue of the Country: To pay taxes and dues honestly and regularly to increase the revenue of the government, which can be used for the development of the nation.
Objective 4
Social objectives:
(i) Adoption of Fair Trade Practices: activities such as hoarding, black- marketing and over-charging must be checked.The business unit must not create artificial scarcity of essential goods or raise prices for the sake of earning more profits. The objective of business is to adopt fair trade practices for the welfare of the consumers as well as the society.
(ii) Production and Supply of Quality Goods and Services: The objective of business is to produce better quality goods and supply them at the right time and at a right price. It is not desirable on the part of the organisation to supply adulterated or inferior goods which cause injuries to the customers.It should charge the price according to the quality of e goods and services provided to the society.Timely supply of all their requirements.To supply those goods and services on a regular basis.
(iii) Contribution to the General Welfare of the Society: To work for the general welfare and upliftment of the society.Running through of schools and colleges better education opening of vocational training centres to train the people to earn their livelihood, establishing hospitals for medical facilities and providing recreational facilities for the general public like parks, sports complexes etc.

2. Explain the process of developing those objectives into strategies (250-words).
Strategic objectives are purpose statements that help create an overall vision and set goals and measurable steps for an organisation to help achieve the desired outcome. A strategic objective is most effective when it is quantifiable either by statistical results or observable data.
Financial strategic objectives are created to help companies make projections for profits, shape budgets and measure costs for their organisation. They allow a company to focus on the monetary needs of their organisation with specific steps to increase or decrease costs, re-evaluate spending, analyse revenue trends and plan for financial growth.

Growth strategic objectives
Businesses use strategic growth goals to make actionable statements about expanding and increasing their company influence in the market and developing new internal processes. Strategic objectives for growth can help a company plan for the future of the business with specific steps on how to achieve those long-term goals.

Training/learning strategic objectives
Companies create strategic objectives for learning by planning to increase staff knowledge and capabilities with specific actions. Strategic objectives for training are ways that a business can plan to invest in their employees to address overall performance goals.

Business processes/operations strategic objectives
Changing or restructuring the way a business operates is the focus of strategic objectives for business processes and operations. To effectively make goals for production, a business may choose to adjust and evaluate how they create a product with the objective of implementing a more efficient process. Other process and operational objectives might involve business-to-business strategies or business-to-consumer tactics.

Customer strategic objectives
Some businesses want their strategic objectives to focus on the customer experience. A business may want to work toward creating value for their consumers based on the cost of a product or service. Or, a company may want to set goals for outstanding customer service with actionable objectives to help achieve this outcome.
3. Outline your business strategies within this section (300-words).
Present hypothetical strategies if you feel more comfortable doing so.
Objective 1 – Strategy 1
Cooperate with local media
Cooperate with local media to improve bakery sales. Paid articles on popular local websites that mention or feature my bakery.To work directly with the editor to find the best way to promote the product while delivering value to the reader. To focus on what makes you different from everyone else and a place that is truly worth a visit.Share the recipe of one of the bestsellers or document the day-to-day life of the business. To create a special project and hold a master class on baking or decorating cakes to prove to people that the company is unique.
Objective 2 – Strategy 2
Maintain Google My Business Profile.

As it will help drive customers to the business. Maintain an accurate and up-to-date profile, to gain customer interest and trust. Update with posts, offerings, questions and answers, and direct messaging. Lists the hours of operation, alerts customers to closures due to holidays or other events.
Objective 3 – Strategy 3
Add beverages to your menu

To sell drinks in the bakery to increase the sales, turnover and profit of a bakery. To hire a barista working the coffee machine and offer five different types of coffee: Americano, Latte, Cappuccino, Espresso, and Americano with milk. Also, with drinks make various special offers to promote new items on the menu.

Objective 4 – Strategy 4

Upselling

Upselling to increase bakery sales by giving out free samples of new goods or training the staff to upsell certain menu items. 
Part Two
4. Based on your SWOT analysis, evaluate the restraints from internal weaknesses on your company’s ability to develop and implement these business strategies. (200-words). 
SWOT analysis can help the brand focus on building upon its strengths and opportunities while addressing its weaknesses as well as threats to improve its market position.
The strengths of SM Bakery look at the key aspects of its business which gives it competitive advantage in the market. Some important factors in a brand's strengths include its financial position, experienced workforce, product uniqueness & intangible assets like brand value.
Below are the Strengths in the SWOT Analysis 
1. The company recognizes that it must have an accurate understanding of consumer preferences and develop new products accordingly in order to keep offering customers new and delicious tastes.
2.In the convenience store business development of products perfectly suited to each geographical region and to enrich the assortment of products available
3. It has developed its own licensed stores — convenience stores and bakeshops, the latter of which sell products made both on- and off-site 
4. By proactively adopting advanced frozen technology and other technological innovations,and continues to offer products of truly high value that satisfy customers
5. Skilled workforce and experienced staff to help the business in many ways like the preparation of better quality products, less wastage, and increased customer satisfaction.
The weaknesses of a brand are certain aspects of its business which it can improve to increase its position further. Certain weaknesses can be defined as attributes which the company is lacking or in which the competitors are better. Here are the weaknesses in the SWOT Analysis:
1. Intense competition for sales in the market
2. Prolonged deflation has created a market environment in which customers tend to seek out low prices
3. Higher ingredient costs, particularly the price of flour
5. Based on your SWOT analysis, evaluate the restraints on your company’s ability to develop and implement these business strategies from external threats. (200-words). 
The opportunities for any brand can include areas of improvement to increase its business. A brand's opportunities can lie in geographic expansion, product improvements, better communication etc. Following are the opportunities in the SWOT Analysis:
	1.	Step up efforts to manage quality at all stages, including the procurement of raw materials, distribution and sales, as well as address related environmental issues through such measures as expanding our food waste recycling program
	2.	Take advantage of new developments in information technology to improve sales and distribution systems and assist our licensed stores, which include convenience stores and bakeshops, to attract new customers
	3.	Broaden its operations: After market research and check the feasibility of various bakery products that have a potential for growth.
The threats for any business can be factors which can negatively impact its business. Some factors like increased competitor activity, changing government policies, alternate products or services etc. can be threats. The threats in the SWOT Analysis:
	1.	Economic Recession: The pandemic of covid-19 has caused the worldwide global economic recession to leave millions of people unemployed. The buying power of the ordinary working class has declined significantly, and they have tightened their spending on everything. Resultantly, the sales of bakery shop owners have declined during and after the pandemic.
	2.	Challenging income environment
	3.	Safety Regulations: You have to follow the safety and health regulations for the production of bakery products. Since it’s a food business, the production process and quality of food matters a lot to the customers. You should set high standards for your bakery regardless of the visit of food authority members; it would show your commitment to the business you are in.
	4.	Competitors: Since a small business owner, have to face competition from the worlds’ leading chain brands. Those brands spend billions of dollars on the marketing and promotion of their products and services. They have established a large database of loyal customers, and it has been very difficult to change the minds of those customers.


 

